feature: RunTrigger gRPC endpoint for Waypoint Server (#2840)
hashicorp/waypoint: website/content/docs/triggers.mdx

requiring the Waypoint CLI or any other Waypoint setup in your scripts. You will
simply need grpcurl or curl to execute a Trigger URL

Trigger URLs can be invoked directly inside an environment with a gRPC request
that tells Waypoint to execute the pre-configured action. Trigger URLs
configurations are project-scoped, where their actions can operate on every
application defined in a project or target a single application inside a project.

~> **NOTE**: With this first iteration in Waypoint 0.7, the Waypoint server will only
support executing Triggers through gRPC. However, in a future version, we will
support HTTP requests to initiate running Triggers, making Waypoint use in CI
even more accessible than it is today. We recommend trying this feature through
gRPC until the HTTP implementation has been released.

## Waypoint Trigger CLI

The Waypoint CLI comes with a subcommand that lets you configure and update
Trigger URL configurations.

Check out our CLI docs for the `waypoint trigger` command, such as
[waypoint trigger create](/commands/trigger-create).

## Pre-configuring a Trigger URL

As an example, we can create a Trigger URL config that deploys the latest artifact

> to the produciton workspace. We'll need to figure the Trigger to use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the produciton workspace. We'll need to configure the Trigger to use the
```

> As an example, we can create a Trigger URL config that deploys the latest artifact
> to the produciton workspace. We'll need to figure the Trigger to use the
> right project, application, and workspace. Then we can specify which [lifecycle operation](docs/lifecycle)
> we want the trigger to execute when run. We can also include a `description` or
> `tags` for extra information for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, you can create a Trigger URL config that deploys the latest artifact
to the production workspace. First, configure the Trigger to use the
right project, application, and workspace. Then, specify which [lifecycle operation](docs/lifecycle)
you want the trigger to execute when run. You can also include a `description` or
`tags` for extra information for the user.
```

Reviewer: You go back and forth in the docs between `you` and `we` and I think we should be consistent. I've noted some suggested changes for this, but not everything.

Author: Thanks for the catch here! I merged your other suggestions but github doesn't like this multi-line suggestion so I'll make the changes locally

```sh
$ waypoint trigger create \
      -project=hcp-packer \
      -app=backend-svc \
      -workspace=production \
      -name=deploy-latest \
      -op=deploy
Trigger "deploy-latest" (123ABC456DEF) has been created
Trigger ID: 123ABC456DEF
```

Note that creating a trigger does not validate the existence of a Project or
Application. This validation happens at execution time. If you have made a mistake
or typo, you can easily modify an existing trigger with `waypoint trigger update`.

~> **NOTE**: In the future, once the HTTP implementation has been released, this
command will return a full HTTP URL that Waypoint server will be able to accept requests
with for executing this operation.

For now, we can use this ID to make a request to Waypoint server to execute the
trigger.

## Modifying an existing Trigger URL Configuration

If you wish to see all of your configured triggers inside a Waypoint server,

> we can run the `waypoint trigger list` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run the `waypoint trigger list` command:
```

```sh
$ waypoint trigger list
» Trigger URL Configs
              ID             |         NAME         | WORKSPACE |   PROJECT   | APPLICATION |        OPERATION
-----------------------------+----------------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+---------------------------
  01FS57XXWAZRFMTSW2XVPEM41V | up-trigger           | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | up
  01FS57Y4TC7HGQCXKM5C22VCF6 | build                | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | build
  01FS57YBR2FB38NE08X7AWSJ52 | deploy-latest-go     | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | deploy
  01FS57YH4TQMSP6HZ1QZ03QE2R | release-latest       | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | release
  01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR | deploy-statusreport  | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | status report deployment
  01FS58DAXTE832BM5JMG1Z2XMA | release-statusreport | default   | go-gitops-0 | go          | status report release

```

In this example, we are configuring Trigger URLs for the `go-gitops-0` project.

Now, let's say you have a _status report_ trigger that _only_ runs on your app

> called `go` in the default workspace, but wish for that trigger to refresh the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
called `go` in the `default` workspace, but wish for that trigger to refresh the
```

status in the `production` workspace.

> First, we can inspect the Trigger URL configuration to see how it's configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, inspect the Trigger URL configuration to see how it's configured:
```

```sh
$ waypoint trigger inspect 01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR

» Trigger URL config:
              Name: deploy-statusreport
                ID: 01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR
  Last Time Active: n/a
     Authenticated: true
         Operation: status report deployment
         Workspace: default
           Project: go-gitops-0
       Application: go

```

> For this trigger to run in the `production` workspace, we can update the
> triggers configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this trigger to run in the `production` workspace, update the
trigger's configuration:
```

```sh
$ waypoint trigger update -id=01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR -workspace=production
Trigger "deploy-statusreport" (01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR) has been updated
Trigger ID: 01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR
$ waypoint trigger inspect 01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR

» Trigger URL config:
              Name: deploy-statusreport
                ID: 01FS582B3X8VW0251C1XDQ56RR
  Last Time Active: n/a
     Authenticated: true
         Operation: status report deployment
         Workspace: production
           Project: go-gitops-0
       Application: go
```

> For now, we can use this ID to make a request to Waypoint server to execute the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, you can use this ID to make a request to Waypoint server to execute the
```

trigger.

## Running a Trigger URL Configuration via gRPC

```sh
$ grpcurl -d '{"ref": {"id": "123ABC456DEF"}}' -H "Authorization: `waypoint user token`" waypoint.server.address hashicorp.waypoint.Waypoint/RunTrigger
```

The gRPC `RunTrigger` endpoint will always return 3 job IDs for each job queued.

- The StartTask job for On-Demand Runners
- The trigger operation job
- The StopTask job for On-Demand Runners

So, if you queue a trigger that will run for _all applications inside a project_,
you will get back StartTask and StopTask jobs wrapped around the actual Trigger
URL job for each job queued.

In the future, the HTTP implementation will handle these jobs for you, and
give you the ability to stream the output of the job easily in CI.

## Running a Trigger URL Configuration via HTTP

In an upcoming version of Waypoint, we will provide an HTTP endpoint for easy

> access to request running a configured Trigger. When you create a trigger,
> you'll also now see an HTTP url:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access to request running a configured Trigger. When you create a trigger,
you'll then see an HTTP url:
```

```sh
$ waypoint trigger create \
      -project=hcp-packer \
      -app=backend-svc \
      -workspace=production \
      -name=deploy-latest \
      -op=deploy
Trigger ID: 123ABC456DEF
Trigger URL:
https://waypoint.server.address/api/v1/trigger/123ABC456DEF
```

> Then you will be able to simply add a curl request to your CI configuration

Reviewer: Really emphasize this is future, not now.
```suggestion
When this upcoming feature enhancement is released, you will be able to add a curl request to your CI configuration
```
